Donald John Trump is an American businessman, reality television personality, real estate magnate, and the President-elect of the United States.

In June 2015, Trump announced his candidacy for president as a Republican and quickly emerged as the frontrunner for his party's nomination. In May 2016, his remaining rivals suspended their campaigns, and in July he was formally nominated for president at the 2016 Republican National Convention. He won the general election on November 8, 2016 by earning more Electoral College votes than Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. His transition planning for his administration is currently underway, and he is scheduled to be inaugurated on January 20, 2017. At 70 years old, he will be the oldest person to assume the presidency.

Trump was born and raised in New York City and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1968. In 1971 he took control of the family real estate and construction firm, Elizabeth Trump & Son, and renamed it The Trump Organization. He expanded it to include numerous other products and activities. Trump has built office towers, hotels, casinos, golf courses, and other Trump-branded facilities worldwide. Trump owned the Miss USA pageants from 1996 to 2015, and has made cameo appearances in films and television series. He hosted and co-produced The Apprentice, a reality television series on NBC, from 2004 to 2015. He sought the Reform Party presidential nomination in 2000, but withdrew before voting began. As of 2016, he was listed by Forbes as the 336th wealthiest person in the world, and 156th in the United States, with a net worth of $4.5 billion.


Trump's 2016 presidential campaign received unprecedented media coverage and international attention. Many of his statements in interviews, on Twitter, and at campaign rallies have been controversial or false. Several rallies during the primaries were accompanied by protests. Trump's platform includes renegotiation of U.S.–China trade deals, opposition to particular trade agreements such as NAFTA and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, pursuit of energy independence using all energy sources with opposition to policies and agreements aimed at combating climate change such as the Clean Power Plan and the Paris Agreement, stronger enforcement of immigration laws together with building a wall along the Mexico–U.S. border, reform of veterans' care, repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act, abolition of Common Core education standards, investments in the country's infrastructure and a simplified tax code with lower rates. Following the November 2015 Paris attacks, Trump called for a temporary ban on Muslim immigration, which he later changed to a policy of "extreme vetting" from certain areas of the world.