President-elect Donald Trump began filling his Cabinet on Friday with stalwarts of the right, signaling with a trio of top national security and law enforcement selections that he will aggressively pursue promises he made during the campaign that have caused deep anxiety among immigrant and Muslim communities.

Trump’s choices dimmed speculation that he would move to the center as he begins to govern a nation still deeply fractured and on edge as voters try to predict what the president-elect’s frequently changing policy agenda means for them.

On Friday, Trump provided some clarity.

Trump’s attorney general pick, Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, is an anti-immigration crusader deeply disliked by civil rights activists.

The president-elect’s choice for national security advisor, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, is an experienced warrior who has suggested Americans should fear all Muslims.

Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas, who got the nod for CIA director, broke with colleagues on the House Benghazi Committee to co-author a minority report accusing Hillary Clinton of a cover-up.

The picks renewed the rancor Trump set off earlier in the week when he named as his top White House strategist Stephen Bannon, the media executive who has aligned himself with white nationalists.

They presaged a contentious start to the Trump administration, with Democrats and civil rights activists already vowing to use Senate hearings to put the spotlight on the controversial pasts of the selections who must be confirmed, which include Sessions and Pompeo.

Trump advisors and GOP lawmakers moved quickly to highlight moments in the careers of the men when they worked with colleagues across the aisle, and reiterated that Trump’s Cabinet members are not there to implement their own agenda, but that of Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence.

They suggested that Friday’s announcements don’t necessarily indicate Trump is heading in a sharply ideological direction, as many more top spots have yet to be filled.

GOP establishment favorite and 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney, for example, is scheduled to meet with Trump this weekend, months after emphatically arguing that Trump would be an unqualified and dangerous president. Trump is also talking with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, a favorite of moderates who also harshly criticized Trump during the campaign.

“The president-elect wants the best and brightest,” said Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer. “He is going to meet with people who supported him, and didn’t support him.” 

But the positioning did little to quiet an outcry, with the angriest and fiercest response directed at Sessions.

“If you have nostalgia for the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the closet, immigrants were invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Sen. Jefferson Beauregard Sessions is your man,” Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) said in a statement. “No senator has fought harder against the hopes and aspirations of Latinos, immigrants, and people of color than Sen. Sessions.” 